Sprint versus kanban.
Kanban to me is a great tool or approach for handling
operational work tasks such as bugs, maintenance,
smallish requirements, and things like that.
But when is sprint a better choice?
Well, let's find out.
What's a sprint?
You have likely heard of or been part of a sprint, but let's recap.
A sprint is a term coined and used by the agile framework of scrum,
and it is a timebox, a length of time during which a usable,
and potentially releasable product increment,
is created.
And in software it would be like a new version or release.
Now, sprints have consistent durations throughout a development effort.
And maybe there are two, three, or four-week segments.
A new sprint starts immediately after the conclusion of the previous sprint.
They typically end on a Friday, but they don't have to.
But if it did end on a Friday, the next sprint starts on Monday.
Now let's talk about a few sprint characteristics in the next slide.
Here are a few high-level sprint characteristics.
First, an agile iteration is equivalent to a timebox of work,
and a sprint is an agile iteration, therefore,
a timebox of work.
And some of the characteristics.
It contains a list of features to build.
And by the way, they are chosen by the team on the sprint.
Tasks are assigned to all team members.
A sprint is a fixed duration of time and may range
from one to four weeks in duration, but typically,
I've seen two or three.
It has a fixed start date, maybe it's May 1st.
And it has a fixed end date, maybe it's May 22nd.
That would be a three-week sprint.
So it is important for you to have a basic understanding of a
sprint so you can better relate to my next slide on comparing
the approach of kanban to sprints.
Sprint versus kanban, which to choose?
Sprints and kanban are both iterative work approaches that rely
on process flows and aim to reduce waste.
However,
there are a few main differences between the two
that I'd like to point out to you.
In the category of assigning work,
they're both somewhat similar for this attribute.
Sprint uses a pull system.
However,
an entire batch of work or use cases or multiple tasks is
pulled for each sprint or iteration.
Now, with kanban,
it also uses a pull system or a systematic workflow that allows team members to
only pull new tickets once the previous ticket is complete.
Regarding due dates,
deliverables for sprint are determined by the sprint
themselves or set periods of time in which a set of work
must be completed and ready for review.
Whereas with kanban,
products and processes are delivered continuously on an as needed basis with
duties determined typically by the business or the customer.
So, best uses.
With sprint,
it's best for teams with stable priorities that may not change
as much over time such as with projects.
And with kanban,
best for varying and changing priorities such as with operations.
Now,
I have a few more comments about ticket queues and triage that I'd like to cover in the next section.